this is my attempt to do a short video
that's actually short it's a strange
irony of my life that just a few months
ago or some number of weeks ago a guy
named Joe vegan was actively denouncing
me and defaming me because he felt that
my fundraiser was not legitimate or not
legitimate enough by his standards the
Joe vegan is a guy I had email with I
talked to on skype once and who I
offered to speak to again I invited him
to come on this channel over a period of
many months when we had no conflict
between us
partly because I wanted him to defend
his proposal for opening an animal
sanctuary ok now as time progressed
Joe's relationship with me disintegrated
because I felt he was actively lying
about me and defaming me in a way that
really harmed me because I had my own
fundraiser and I took those funds and I
directly paid a lawyer as part of a
drama that most of you already know
about and I don't need to summarize and
the court case is still ongoing
providing me with hours and hours of
entertainment and many wonderful phone
calls with my lawyer and believe me if
you thought this court case was looking
to be wrapped up in only 3 months I'm
pretty sure my lawyer thought that too
so I got a great price on a very fine
international law firm in Thailand who's
done a lot of work for me and I think
they're still gonna be doing work for me
for many months in 2017 I'm sure they're
not happy but I'm not happy with it
either
but that's another story so Joe vegans
relationship with me press through those
stages and then turned a corner when he
had some kind of psychological breakdown
midlife crisis he lost faith in his own
project with what he was doing on his
channel he's out to never again do vegan
drama and he reinvented himself with the
bright bold new idea of filming himself
eating lunch and talking about what he
eats in a day he basically went back to
doing what 99% of people and vegan
YouTube do and he lost I don't know 50%
of his audience wild guess
ok but one of the oddities is that
throughout these sequent transformations
Joe vegan has nevertheless continued to
prepare
and promote this vision that in the
immediate future like within the next
year he's gonna be opening an animal
sanctuary he's asking you for donations
for him to open and operate his own
animal sanctuary
and when I just now asked my own small
audience here live-streaming does anyone
believe within the next 12 months this
guy is actually moving to Portugal this
guy is actually opening his own animal
sanctuary nobody believed it okay
there's one guy who said yes he does
believe that Joe vegans gonna do it he
believes Joe vegans gonna try and Joe be
he's gonna fail okay from my perspective
at no point has Joe given us a
convincing feasibility study suggesting
he can actually do this and I made a
video that Joe just never applied to and
disparage Joe just complained that I
made a negative video about him I made a
very constructive criticism of Joe
pointing out just how much money it is
to take care of one horse or to take
care of one pig for one year the costs
of running an Animal Sanctuary are very
very high the amount of Labor required
is very very high etc etc and though
that actually sparked a whole bunch of
useful conversations because some of my
own supporters on patreon they have
volunteered in animal sanctuaries in the
past there are people who knew about the
finances you know about the labor who
knew about the veterinary care there are
all kinds of dimensions to this question
that are actually really fascinating
worth discussing within veganism and I
wish Joe had had it in his heart at any
point to come on the channel and have a
constructive discussion about this I
would love to imagine that he has a well
informed opinion but frankly it just
seems like he never did any research all
of that is on the feasibility study side
from my perspective there are also
really interesting ethical questions
raised by the basic concept of an animal
sanctuary I actually think it's very
problematic that we presume an animal
sanctuary is something so much morally
superior to a petting zoo simply because
we say it is I actually think many of
the same moral and ethical quandaries we
get into with zoos and petting zoos
exist for animal sanctuaries also and
many vegans are in a state of blissful
ignorance about that but with all having
been said those are all issues worth
discussing
Joe vegan what are you doing in the next
12 months
you're not defaming me on the internet
anymore I'm very happy about that
not doing beacon DRAM anymore I'm very
happy with that you've given up doing
comedy and satire in many ways I think
that's a great shame maybe your talent
and life still is comedy and satire you
just have to find a way to do comedy and
satire that doesn't involve defamation
and mean-spirited gossip you wouldn't be
the first but when I see you talking on
your own channel about this fantasy that
in the very near future you're going to
be living in Portugal it sounds to me
like you've gone back to the same
fantasy of permanent vacation that not
too long ago made you a devout follower
of durianrider made you buy an airplane
ticket to Chiang Mai Thailand it seems
to me you've just gone back to believing
in a permanent vacation
but now the permanent vacation you're
fantasizing about is that your patreon
subscribers will pay for your cost of
living in Portugal and maybe they will
but from my perspective that's really
very problematic because unlike my
fundraising and my charity that was
linked to a very clear purpose it was
very clear where the money was going
what the money was doing whether or not
we win the court case everyone's
innocent until proven guilty bla bla bla
asking your patreon subscribers to pay
for you to go on vacation and Portugal
is not gonna save even one animal and as
I already sketched out in earlier video
the cost of saving one horse or one pig
apart from all the ethical problems to
come up in that is actually remarkably
high and I've never seen you sketch a
feasibility study for how you're even
gonna save five horses or five pigs or
fifty cats or 500 guinea pigs and it's
not too much to ask for you Joe
it's not too much especially given my
history with you it's not too much to
ask